Converge is an editorial content and workflow management system for media
organisations. The core features of Converge is described below.

= Technology =

Converge is a Java Enterprise Edition 5 (JEE5) applications and must be installed on a
JEE5-compliant application server. Converge uses the Java Persistence API (JPA) and Java
Database Connectivity (JDBC) to communicate with the database server and is therefore
database independent. Converge has been extensively tested and used in production with
the MySQL Database Server 5.5. User management is done through the Lightweight Directory
Access Protocol (LDAP) such as OpenDS, OpenLDAP or Microsoft Active Directory. Converge 
operates on a full open source stack consisting of:

* Operating System: Ubuntu 10.04+
* Application Server: Glassfish v2.1.1
* Database Server: MySQL Server 5.5
* Web Server: Apache 2+
* Java Virtual Machine: Oracle Java 1.6.0
* Directory Service: OpenDS 2+

Converge can also operate on proprietary platforms using Microsoft Windows, Oracle Database
and Application Servers, and Microsoft Active Directory.

= License =

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/> Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

