This chapter shows how to configure the Converge Mobile Subscription Server.

== About ==

The Converge Mobile Subscription Server can pick up content from Converge Editorial and
distribute it to subscribers who have registered on the server.

== Set-up ==

The Converge Mobile Subscription Server must be deployed on a JavaEE 6 platform such as GlassFish 3.x. Below are instructions
for setting up the Mobile Subscription Server on GlassFish 3.1.1:

=== Create JDBC Database Connection ===

1. Make sure that the MySQL JDBC driver has been placed in the ##lib## directory of the GlassFish domain (restart GlassFish after placing the driver in the directory)
1. Log-in to the Administrative Console (http://glassfish:4848)
1. Expand Resources
1. Click JDBC Connection Pools
1. Click New...
1. Enter "convergeMobileSubscription" as the name of the connection pool
1. Select "javax.sql.DataSource" as the Resource Type
1. Select "MySql" as the Database Driver Vendor
1. Click Next
1. Enter the following details below under Additional Properties:
11. User = root (user name for accessing the database)
11. ServerName = localhost (database server host name)
11. Url = jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/converge-mobileserver  (JDBC URL to the database hosting the converge mobile server - this database must exist)
11. DatabaseName = converge-mobileserver (match the database name in the above url)
11. Password = root (password for accessing the database)
11. URL = jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/converge-mobileserver  (JDBC URL to the database hosting the converge mobile server - this database must exist)
1. Click Finish
1. Click JDBC Resources
1. Click New...
1. In the JNDI name enter ##jdbc/convergeMobileSubscription##
1. In the Pool Name select ##convergeMobileSubscription##
1. Click OK

== Services ==

=== Wake-up Service ===

The wake-up service can be called by Converge Editorial to indicate that new content is 
available that can be fetched using the SOAP web service provided by Converge Editorial.

==== Invoking the service ====

The wake-up service is RESTful and can be invoked by GET'ing the following URL:

##http(s)://converge-mobile-server-host/converge-mobile-server/wake-up/[external_outlet_id]/[edition_id]/[internal_outlet_id]/[internal_outlet_key]##

Where

* ##external_outlet_id## is the unique identifier of the outlet that can be synchronised from Converge Editorial, i.e. the unique id of the Outlet in Converge Editorial.
* ##edition_id## is the unique identifier of the edition that has become available for synchronising on Converge Editorial
* ##internal_outlet_id## is the unique identifier of the corresponding outlet on Converge Mobile Server
* ##internal_outlet_key## is a secret key of the ##internal_outlet_id##. This key is set on the Converge Mobile Server

