= Catalogues {{anchor id=app-editorial-catalogues /}} =

This chapter shows how to set-up a catalogue for storing digital
assets.

== About ==

Catalogues are used for storing digital assets such as images,
sound bites, video footage and documents. Approved items in a 
catalogue can be attached to stories in outlets.

Every digital asset has a record in the catalogue where meta-data
can be defined for easy retrieval. A digital asset record can
contain multiple versions (also known as Renditions) of the digital
asset. The available renditions differ from catalogue to catalogue
depending on the type of digital assets you store in the catalogue.
It is good practice to separate the types of digital assets into
separate catalogues.

A catalogue has two physical locations

* Location containing renditions of digital assets
* Location from where the system will automatically pick up digital assets for processing (also known as the drop directory)

//Note: The drop directory functionality is not available until Converge 1.2//


== Setting up a new Catalogue ==

Note: You must be a Converge administrator to set-up a catalogue.

Creating a catalogue requires that you know the type of renditions
you will be storing for each digital asset in the catalogue. It also
requires that you know the physically location where you want to
store the renditions.

=== Create Renditions ===

Renditions can be re-used across catalogues. Converge comes with a
set of default renditions.

|=Label|=Name|=Description
|Thumbnail|rnd:thumbnail|A very small rendition of an image, giving only a general idea of its content.
|Preview|rnd:preview|Preview resolution image or video
|Low resolution|rnd:lowRes|Low resolution image or video
|High resolution|rnd:highRes|High resolution image or video
|Content for print|rnd:print|Content intended to appear in print
|Content for a web page|rnd:web|Content intended to appear on a web page
|Content for short message|rnd:sms|Content intended to appear in a short messaging system
|Content for a mobile device|rnd:mobile|Content intended to appear on a mobile or handheld device

If these renditions are not sufficient, you can create new renditions by following these steps:

1. Log into Converge
1. Click the Administration sub-tab
1. Click the Catalogues option of the left-side administration menu
1. Click the Renditions option on the left-side Catalogues menu
1. Click the New button on top of the Rendition table
1. Enter a label for the Rendition. The label is used for presenting a human-readable description of the label
1. Enter a name for the Rendition. The name will be used to reference the rendition technically. For example, it is used when defining which rendition to upload to web sites along with stories where digital assets are attached.
1. Enter a description of the Rendition. The description will help communicate the purpose of the Rendition
1. If the rendition is used for images, you can specify a default height and width for images of this rendition under the Images Defaults tab. The entered dimensions will automatically be used when generating Renditions using the cropping tool.
1. Click Save

=== Preparing Disk Space ===

Every catalogue must have a physically location where renditions of the digital assets are stored.
The location must be available on the file system and through a web server (HTTP/HTTPS location). It
is good practice to keep the catalogue together to minimise maintenance.

Assuming that you already have a web server running with the IP address ##192.168.0.1## pointing to
the directory ##/home/converge## you can create a catalogue location like this:

1. Log into the server using SSH/Putty with the Converge user account (e.g. ##ssh converge@192.168.0.1)
1. Once logged in go to the home directory (i.e.  ##cd /home/converge##)
1. Create a directory that will contain all your catalogues (i.e.   ##mkdir catalogues##)
1. Enter the catalogues directory (i.e.  ##cd catalogues##)
1. Create the individual catalogue directories (i.e.   ##mkdir mycatalogue##)
1. Create the individual catalogue drop directories (i.e.  ##mkdir mycatalogue-drop##)
1. Make sure the directories are owned by the user executing the Glassfish server (e.g. ##chown converge:converge mycatalogue mycatalogue-drop##)

You should be able to access the directories by entering ##http:/192.168.0.1/catalogues/mycatalogue## in
the web browser.


=== Creating a Catalogue ===

Once you have renditions set-up and disk space set-up, you are ready to create the Catalogue.

1. Log into Converge
1. Click the Administration sub-tab
1. Click the Catalogues option on the left-side administration menu
1. Click the New button on top of the Catalogues table
1. Enter a name for the Catalogue. The name must be descriptive of its purpose
1. Enter a description of the Catalogue. The description will communicate the purpose of the catalogue
1. Tick Enabled. Should the catalogue get full or if you don't want to use it anymore, you can Untick enabled.
1. Untick Read-only.  If you don't want users to submit items to the catalogue you can mark the catalogue as Read-only by ticking this option.
1. Select an Editor role for the Catalogue. Users in this role will have privilege to approve items submitted by other users. 
1. Click the Renditions tab
1. Select the Renditions that should be available for digital assets
1. Select the Rendition that should be used as the Thumbnail inside Converge in the Preview Rendition menu
1. Select the Rendition that should be considered the original version of the digital asset in the Original Rendition menu. This rendition must be provided when creating a new digital asset in the catalogue.
1. Click the Location tab
1. In the Location field enter the path of the catalogue (e.g. ##/home/converge/mycatalogue/##)
1. In the Web access (URL) field enter the path where the catalogue can be access through the web server (e.g. ##http://192.168.0.1/catalogues/mycatalogue ##)
1. In the Drop point enter the path of the catalogue drop point (e.g. ##/home/converge/mycatalogue-drop/##)
1. If the catalogue is used for images, you can create an action for generating the thumbnail rendition automatically
11. Click the Actions tab
11. Click the New button
11. Enter "Thumbnail Generation" as the Label
11. In Type select "Resize Image Rendition"
11. Click Properties
11. Select the property "Original Rendition"
11. Enter the name of the rendition to use as the basic for the thumbnail, e.g. ##rnd:highRes##
11. Click Add
11. Select the property "Generate Rendition"
11. Enter the name of the rendition to generate, e.g. ##rnd:thumbnail##
11. Click Add
11. Select the property "Width in pixels of the generated rendition"
11. Enter the width of the thumbnail to generate (e.g. ##200##)
11. Click Add
11. Select the property "Height in pixels of the generated rendition"
11. Enter the height of the thumbnail to generate (e.g. ##200##)
11. Click Add
11. Select the property "Quality"
11. Enter the quality in percent of the thumbnail to generate (e.g. ##100##)
11. Click Add
11. Select the property "Enable on update"
11. Enter "true" if you want the thumbnail to be re-generated if the High resolution image is re-uploaded.
11. Click Add
